# Arachne

## Abstract
Analyzing massive-scale networks, or graphs, presents significant challenges due to their vast size and the growing need for user-friendly and productive analytic tools. Such graphs hail from diverse fields such as cybersecurity and health representing anything from malicious network flows to neural connections. Users require simple and efficient tools to decipher hidden structures and derive insightful metrics from these massive graphs. Tools such as NumPy, Pandas, and NetworkX, allow users to analyze data in Python of limited size. Recently, Arkouda was released as a replacement at scale for array operations typically found in NumPy and Pandas. Arkouda allows for efficient execution of array tasks for datasets terabytes in size. Its operations on tabular data, like reductions and scans, differ from the often irregular nature of operations on graphs. Arachne, an extension to Arkouda, bridges this gap by seamlessly transforming Arkouda dataframes into graphs. Notably, Arachne can manage complex graph types, like property graphs, processing queries on graphs composed of billions of edges in seconds. Both Arkouda and Arachne harness the power of Chapel, a language crafted to elevate parallel programming by removing the need to manage inter-node communication in a computing cluster, with a Python API. Some of the methods we have implemented thus far include breadth-first search (BFS), connected components (CC), k-truss (KT), triangle counting (TC), and triangle centrality (TCE).